We started with our small business, and now I don't
even know where it is.
I remember Kairat Akhbedev, who probably knows him.
He was sitting there as well.
By the way, we met with Khairat.
He invited him to the jury at the beginning of
the start -up, which he was going to perform at.
He was sitting there as well.
With his project.
So, the whole area of the guys went there.
I remember him.
And then he started to develop.
He started to develop.
I think it was about 350 people.
There were 250 of them.
It was a young man.
That is, the goal of the commercialization of the technology.
To connect the science with the business itself.
It was a small research, because we had the
motivation to do research.
We had some of them.
And right away, it was a movement of the commercialization,
innovation,
the help of the start -ups, those who were involved.
It was a process of learning by doing, that is,
we studied and worked at the same time.
And those were the cases when they came to some
of the guys.
One.
When I want to go to a business, I say,
what can you say?
That's what I do.
I don't know.
All right.
I just say, let's move.
Because we need to move.
And then, at the same time, we had a relationship
with our own ideas.
Let's move.
He worked with us.
Then he went to the business.
Then he came back to us.
He defended his heart.
It was a kind of process.
It was a difficult process.
It was a person.
I think that until the 17th, then we opened a
medical school.
Then we graduated from school.
We had four or five graduate schools.
And today he has a set.
He has a set.
Well, I always think that, because we have a position,
a senior of the KSEED University, that we still are
in the stage and actively participate in the training of
university.
That's my opinion.
Because we are not yet at the end of the
university.
And so I would like to support the club and
the external community
to go to the university, to the university,
How much is now the student's job in the club,
in the club, for example?
In general, in sum, more than 80 ,000 people.
More than 80 ,000 people.
And we have a lot of good students.
You know, they will immediately enter the club.
But of course, the main task was in the perspective
that the people who were sitting inside the club created
such teachers, engineering,
economic values, interior of the country, and one of the
projects that we started.
This project is a science park.
Well, while we were not able to finish it, we
continued to do it slowly.
But this was a task, in fact, and the creation
of the working place for their students, and those who
were taught to work there.
The creation is creative and scientific, well, as it is
called, working place.
With such conclusions,
you have been working in the process for a long
time.
But I remember that, in my opinion, the whole concept
of medicine was for science.
Yes, medicine was for science.
Medicine was then, it was the University of College of
London.
And we started
with
the school of science.
Then the students themselves were able to continue, because even
they were able to move forward.
They were able to move forward.
And today, this school of science
is quite successful.
It even helped to raise the potential of the engineering
school, because the part,
I .e.
the IT, it moved there, and there was a lot
of these things.
In the process of this growth, of course, there are
a lot of interesting and human events.
People were coming from the work of running.
By the way, how did you see this process?
Well,
one simple thing, I will not be called one of
the youths, such talented students, who are still working now.
In our university,
he wrote to me, he wrote to me, he is
still in America.
He said, I am
quite successful.
I have a clear and transparent career.
But
I am one.
I said, yes, then he was just on his way.
I talked to him, he offered me
life, to go to Kazakhstan.
I have a guitarist there, he offered me my best
career.
And he writes to me, he writes to me, he
wrote to me, he wrote to me, what would I
have there?
I said, well,
there are two options, your future fate.
One option you will work there, there will be three,
you will start,
you will go back to your country, but you will
be the most excited person, what happens here, how the
university is, how he, let's say, successful or unsuccessful, goes
there.
The second option, well, you will become a super leader
in this university.
Fortunately, I can say that this is
the second option, I'm saying, this is a huge professor
as well,
the center is calling you.
I think it's going to be great classes in the
transfer.
This is an attack.
That's weird.
That's why...
Yes,
that's why...
For the context of the institute...
I...
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
I told LEM to take 20 years.
So, this is one of the classic examples.
I came to the university in 2010
at the University of Krushka -Patekvandow.
I met one of my friends.
They told me, you know, I know a lot of
people.
They called me Abukh.
I met Abukh.
He graduated from high school.
He graduated
from high school.
He came to the university.
He graduated from B bread.
He graduated from EJB.
He worked with one of the
famousbel peers.
He studied at a professional university.
He's a father.
He was passed away .inyansaparam Yeah, it's a bit of
a problem.
Of course, it's a medical school.
Yes, a school in America.
And he was a doctor, for example, who went to
America to take a doctor.
Yes, he was a doctor.
He was one of the first people to come.
He was a medical school, and as we started medical
school, we didn't have any medical school.
We were building it.
It's not long ago, he was a medical school, he
was born, he was raised by children.
He was the most famous.
He had a professor at the university.
Yes, yes.
Yes,
yes.
Well, Armand, of course, the handsome guy, Ken Oliebek.
Yes, that is, a big person.
Ken, he participated in the school building.
He was a newbie.
We were there together, and he was a medical school
teacher.
He was a very young student.
Yes, Ken, and then he also went.
He also did a big class of building all this.
It was an academic interview.
The project was a trigger, which was a critical mass
of talent,
including the Kazakhstan talent that was transferred to the whole
world, and then he returned back to what time it
was.
Yes, that is, it was interesting.
Yes, it was interesting.
This was especially about the project, that in fact, it
is clear to say, that he was raised by our
guys.
He was a great young guy.
We helped him.
As I said before, they didn't allow him to work,
they showed him where he was going.
And I am very proud of this young guy, who
was called RISI, C, and then RISI.
And if we talk about,
besides, it was interesting to talk about Kazakhstan's students, teachers,
and teachers from abroad,
who have no connection with Kazakhstan.
Yes, in America, from different countries, from Europe.
How did they come to RISI, maybe some
other examples from your mind, like the implementation?
No, there are still people who have been working for
the first years, that is, there are such people.
Yes, and even recently, I have such a conversation, I
am returning from a professor, who has been working for
more than 10 years.
He is a university, and they said that, in principle,
it is necessary to represent our status, because we have
a lot of desire to go to Kazakhstan, that is,
we work here, everything is already there, we live, although
it is, say,
not some funny, or, family, and clean, came from abroad,
and somehow, they want their status, like, to the other
side, to determine, because we work here, we work here
for more than 10, 12 years, and, in any case,
we always take some steps,
but there are, of course, the steps, which do not
work much, and, in general, do not plan to run
your life, in the future, to the Kazakhstan, and these
are people who, not even, say, but I believe that
we want to live our lives, but comfortably,
so,
it is,
takes you by yourself, this is the human experience, also
what I consider, I thought, that something happened.
So,
for example, many.
You come to school with your head, yes, Yes,
with Duke.
Yes, with Duke's business.
Yes, she is also functioning.
In my opinion, people are not opening their eyes now.
Do you know what we have?
Well, President, now he is...
Patrick, do you work at Duke Park?
No, he left.
But now he is different.
In my opinion,
he was in the corner of the school of management.
That's why it was interesting.
That's why he left.
Yes, yes, yes.
Now the new trend is going to be introduced.
We know that we are in 400 plus.
There is no school, there is even a school of
education.
She is in 200 plus.
Where is it?
And...
Where is the last few years?
Why is it that I have been working with Duke
for half a year now?
When I moved to the position of the president,
in fact, when he had already been working on a
whole scene, it seems like the position of the president
was...
New, new.
I need to be here on the lesson.
Therefore,
there was such a transformation.
And when I started this program, a constant development, I
returned to the previous project.
When I was engaged in climatic tasks, as I said.
And we developed the direction.
And here is the new president.
Today, it is actually...
It was recognized by...
There is no flag of the university that we will
focus on a constant development.
On a constant development.
What does it mean?
Well, this is...
I want to start from the clean energy, the clean
water,
the food security.
On a constant development.
In fact, it is a constant development.
And we, in fact,
we have always observed them.
But today, we have already defined
those researches, researches and researches that are in the university,
what tasks are decided.
At the same time, with scientific solutions, they are decided
by tasks, in which they are decided by a constant
development.
And they are practically correct that it is like a
global...
Well, for a constant development, there are a lot of
them.
There are some focuses, for example, on which they are
not actual.
They are not actual.
There, let's say,
healthy person.
But in general, they are decided by the quality of
life of people.
That is, when we talk about a constant development globally,
then practically at the same time we should think about
the quality of life of people.
Then, when people, the quality of God, the life is
good, they are happy because these two things are global,
the quality of the development.